THIS SOFTWARE IS UNDER MIT LICENSE.  
Copyright (c) 2005 Manlio Perillo (manlio.perillo@gmail.com)

Read LICENSE file for more informations.


INTRODUCTION: 
pqlib is an implementation of the PostgreSQL Protocol, frontend side,
version 3.0, in Python and Twisted.

It is somewhat similar to pgasync but it is a more usable and complete
implementation, that try to follow the interface of the official C libpq.

pglib is also extensible.
See ipg.py for interface definitions.

Also note that the default implementation does no conversion between
database types and Python object.
Only raw strings are used.

This is a low level asynchrous interface to PostgreSQL.


TODO:
- Support the extended query protocol.

- The protocol allows the use of differents format code for each column
(text or binary).
To simplify the interface, pglib force the use of the same format code
for all columns (or function's arguments and return values).

- Add support for Large Objects.

- Add an higher level connectdb, like that in libpq.


TEST SUITE:
The test suite requires a working PostgreSQL database, listening on
localhost on port 5432 (the default one).

Before running the test, with 
trial test_pglib.py

you have to run the setup script (setup.sh on POSIX systems and
setup.bat on Windows).
This script will create some test users and a test database.

Note that this require psql to be in your PATH 
(an issue only for Windows users)
and the password of the database superuser (postgres).

You will need the PL/pgSQL procedural language.

If your database server has SSL enabled,
ssl = on
in postgresql.conf, 
make sure to set SSL = True in test_pglib.py.

Make sure to add entries in your pg_hba.conf file for the test users,
as listed in setup.conf.
Don't forget to delete or comment out any entry that match all
users.

To clean up your database cluster, do:
psql -U postgres -d template1 -f unsetup.sql


REQUIREMENTS: 
Python 2.4 (http://python.org/)
Twisted 2.2 (http://twistedmatrix.com)
Zope Interfaces 3.1 (http://www.zope.org/Products/ZopeInterface)
pyOpenSSL 0.6 (http://pyopenssl.sourceforge.net/)
PostgreSQL 8.1 (http://www.ostgresql.org)

pglib should works with Python 2.3, Twisted 2.0, Zope Interfaces 3.0
and PostgreSQL 7.4.


I have tested pglib on:
- Windows XP SP2, using the latest versions of the required software
- Linux Debian Sarge, using Python 2.3, Twisted 2.2, Zope Interfaces
3.0 and PostgreSQL 7.4
